>> War, the Illuminati,
and esoteric Hollywood.
Let's enter the "Buzzsaw."
[THEME MUSIC]
[BOOM]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
Jay Dyer joins me today.
His focus is on the interplay
of film, geopolitics, espionage,
and psychological warfare.
Jay is a lecturer and author
of the popular book, "Esoteric
Hollywood: Sex, Cults,
and Symbols in Film,"
as well as the host of the
"Jay's Analysis" podcast.
Jay's also a regular contributor
to "21st Century Wire," "Soul
of the East," and the
"Espionage History Archive."
Today we'll be discussing
the American urge for war
and how they sell it
to us through media,
and what the Illuminati
really wants.
So let's start by
asking, Jay, based
on your experience,
obviously years
of researching and watching
a lot of films, analyzing,
what do you think
is the ultimate--
I would say-- the ultimate
agenda that's being promoted
when it comes to making movies?
Is there an agenda, even, let's
say, to what gets greenlit?
Are directors told, this is
what you're going to make?
>> Right.
>> Or do you think that there
is maybe something more,
would you say, like a
zeitgeist in the air?
>> I think you have to go back
to the beginning of the camera,
its invention, and the fact that
it was known from the get-go,
even with Thomas Edison, that
you could use this object
for propaganda.
And so even in
the earliest days,
people were freaked out by
like a train coming, right?
They'd never seen a thing
like that, with a film.
And then if you move up
into the World War I era,
it was already being used
for propaganda, films were.
And then think of, say,
Howard Hughes, right?
He filmed war
propaganda footage.
So the biggest film of its time
in 1930 was "Hell's Angels."
and "Hell's Angels" was
all about war propaganda.
So from the outset of
Hollywood, I think the Pentagon
military strategists,
they realized
that this entity could
be used to shape and mold
people's worldviews.
And so if you not just
consider Hollywood, but also,
if you look at the rise
of, say, CBS and all that,
the people who were the founders
of that came out of the OSS,
which is the Office
of Strategic Services,
founded in 1942, sort of
the precursor to the CIA.
So William Paley,
David Sarnoff-- these
are all people who
come out of that world,
as well as people from the
advertising and marketing
world.
If you look at RKO Pictures,
as well, the Rockefellers
had a tremendous influence
and control of that.
Joe Kennedy, Sr., was one of the
heads of RKO for a long time.
So there's always been
this tremendous influence,
this background of
shadow power, that I
think has had the say-so,
ultimately, in what
would get made, mainly in
terms of the big blockbuster,
big-scale stuff.
So I think there's a lot of
people who do make good message
films that are out there.
But when it comes
to the big things--
like you're talking
about war and things
like this-- absolutely,
the blockbusters
are going to be
tailored and engineered
to sell the Pentagon's agenda.
And in fact, there
have actually been
a lot of scholarly
works written on this.
There's "Operation
Hollywood," which
is a collection
of academics that
have written on the influence
of the Pentagon and war films
and so forth, pushing their
foreign policy agenda.
There's Patricia Jenkins'
book, "CIA in Hollywood."
And then there's also my book.
So a lot of people have
been writing on that topic
and saying, hey, look,
actually, these movies
are not just harmless
creative entertainment.
There's a lot of
messaging that's been
putting into these films.
>> Right.
And yeah, obviously,
when it comes
to militarization
in Hollywood, you
could see "Zero Dark Thirty"
and the CIA management of that.
Or "Argo," for example.
>> "American Sniper."
>> "American Sniper I mean,
these are very obvious
examples.
But when we talk about the
esoteric agenda, you know,
it strikes me-- I
watch movies often
that have 33 very
prominently chosen
as a number within the film.
And it's like, well, you
have all these numbers
to choose from.
Why is it 33?
Why is the all-seeing eye there?
And that just makes you
wonder, from your research,
is it something
that, for example,
the production
designers, art designers,
are perhaps just aware
of, and they're perhaps
Freemasons or whatnot?
Or is it actually
like, how do you say?
Even from the director and
the director's perspective,
and even the producers or the
higher-ups, sort of saying,
let's throw the
symbols in there?
>> Absolutely.
I think you can go
all the way back
even to-- again, in the early
days, you look at Fritz Lang.
And he would use German
Expressionism, which
utilized a lot of Surrealist
symbolism and was, actually,
many times influenced
by Satanism.
You can find that
in Fritz Lang films.
And then even in
early Hitchcock films,
you'll find references
to all-seeing eyes.
You'll find Masonic
symbolism and imagery.
And that continues
on into, obviously,
into the '60s, when you have
a lot of sort of-- you know,
Kenneth Anger, and more overt
Luciferian themes in his films.
And even though those were kind
of French, kind of out there--
I think if you look at
David McGowan's book,
"Weird Scenes
Inside the Canyon,"
he's shown the connections
between the music
scene and its Satanic
and occultic influences,
and Hollywood out
in Mulholland Drive,
and so forth, if you've
been out that-- I'm sure
you've been out that way.
>> Well, the movie
"Mulholland Drive."
>> I was going to say-- exactly.
And I just was in LA
about a month ago,
and I'd never been
to Mulholland Drive.
And so we drove up
Wonderland Avenue,
and you can see the whole
facility, Lookout Mountain,
where they used to shoot--
it was an old Air Force
Base, where they used to
shoot war propaganda footage.
And you had people like Walt
Disney, Jimmy Stewart-- these
were the top A-listers
in the '40s and '50s
that only had access
to that studio,
where they would film all
kinds of-- well, propaganda,
basically.
So this has been going
on for a long time.
>> Yeah, I mean, certainly
people have asked me about
my father's films,
obviously, things like why,
in "Any Given Sunday," they have
the-- the Dallas Knights are
the opposing, villain team.
And of course, you
know, Dallas is where
Kennedy was killed, right?
And then the Dallas Knights
have the all-seeing eye
as one of their logos,
and also the Templar
cross on their
jerseys, for example.
So it's like, I don't know.
For myself, it's like,
did my father study?
Or did he simply--
was he intuiting,
based on things that he'd picked
up, part of that unconscious?
And you see certain
symbols in his films,
but it's hard to know,
sometimes, whether or not
there's an esoteric aspect
to someone's unconscious mind
or subconscious brain
that's working, oftentimes,
through the artist.
But at what level do you
see the organized component,
the Masonic component,
that you would say
is very prominent and clear in
Hollywood, from your research?
>> Well, I think if you look
at-- we mentioned "Mulholland
Drive."
If you look at
David Lynch's films,
I think he presents a consistent
pattern of, in a symbolic way,
telling how this happens.
So if you watched
"Mulholland Drive,"
you'll see in the
background, there's
kind of this little dude
who's in a room that's
separated by a glass.
And he's basically
calling the shots
as to who gets what
role in what film.
And it represents kind of that--
it's a mafia situation there,
as well as in his film,
"Lost Highway," where
you have the mafia kind of
in the background running,
in some degree,
who gets what role.
And I think that that's
emblematic of kind
of the shadow operators,
in determining
these kinds of things
that you're talking about.
I mean, I was asking
you last night.
Your dad did a great film
called "Nixon," as you know.
And he included in that the
William Butler Yeats poem.
And Yeats was very
influenced by Crowley.
And so when Nixon's talking
to Richard Helms of the CIA,
and he talks about the
Beast, and slouching
towards Bethlehem, right?
I mean, I think
that there has to be
some sort of telluric
influence, or some sort
of astral influence, that
influences the creators,
even if they don't necessarily
know what's going on.
I think we talked this last
time on "Buzzsaw," you know,
they're putting things
into their art--
and I think artists have always
done this-- even if they're not
immediately conscious of it.
Absolutely.
>> Right.
But as far as the actual
purpose of this, I mean,
there's a notion of
predictive programming, right?
That the idea is we're
trying to maybe prepare you
for certain shifts in the
collective consciousness,
let's say, right?
>> Right.
>> So they'll put out
movies that are designed--
for example, like you
mentioned war propaganda.
Is it to sell war?
Is it to sell lifestyles?
What do you see as the
sort of marketing agenda
behind mainstream
media and film?
>> I think-- well,
we mentioned earlier,
sort of these intelligence
agencies that have worked
together with academia to
study the power of film.
And so I think that the social
engineers-- people, say,
from the Tavistock
Institute-- was like
and they understand the
power of storytelling.
And all the way back to Plato,
and Plato's "Republic"--
I've done a lot of lectures
on Plato's "Republic."
it was understood that you could
create and control mythology--
the "noble lie,"
Plato called it--
that could guide the
civilization the way that you
wanted to take it.
And then even into
the modern era,
with people like
Auguste Comte, who
proposed the idea of creating
a civic religion that the state
would completely
control, this would
have to work in tandem with some
sort of myth-making apparatus.
And in our day, that would
be, of course, Hollywood.
And so yes, the
implementation of what
you're calling
predictive programming,
or this sort of conditioning,
I think it's multi-tiered.
So you have on one
level, perhaps,
product placement, which
might be selling something.
Like James Bond's got, you know,
an Omega watch or something.
But then you've also got
a deeper level of it,
where it's perhaps war
propaganda or conditioning,
to say, oh, you know, the
hero's getting a microchip,
or something like this, right?
And then there's that
deeper, deeper level,
which I think is the esoteric
level you're talking about,
that could be either
good or bad, depending
on what the intention of the
people making the film are.
It could be something geared
towards awakening people,
or it could be something
more nefarious about sort
of hoodwinking you with
these different symbols,
and numerology, and so forth.
And if it's something
predicting-- you know,
we've seen this so many times,
where films show something
that happens two, three,
four, five, 10 years later--
I think that that's a form
of conditioning to make
the populace more readily accept
what the long-term strategy is
of the social engineers
down the road.
>> Right.
Well, that's the notion
of the Illuminati shaping
worldview, for example, right?
>> Right.
>> We get-- I would say that
there's singularity moments.
There are points in time
that completely transform
the worldview of the public.
You could say 9/11 was
that shift in time.
And then I think
back to Kubrick,
and doing "2001," which is just
fascinating, because 2001 just
as a number, as a year,
was an interesting choice.
And it was all about,
basically, these moments
of transformations
of consciousness
because of the obelisk.
And you think, well,
is Kubrick someone
who picked up on, basically,
the Illuminati agenda?
Do we-- do we think that
there is a controlled agenda
of a small nefarious cult?
Or do you just
think, again, it's
more of these filmmakers who
are sort of, how do you say,
feeling astral influences,
who are basically aware.
They're tapping into
their unconscious.
They're smart, intuitive people.
Or do you see it as,
there is an Illuminati?
There is a group--
>> I think--
>> --that has a certain
agenda they're trying to push,
trying to shape our worldview?
>> I think with some directors,
it's the influence that
we're talking about, that
sort of is coming to them
spiritually.
But then I think in Kubrick's
case, it's a bit unique.
I think he really was
showing the pattern of who
our rulers are.
Because it's such a consistent
pattern in all of his films.
So you've got "Dr.
Strangelove," which
deals with the Rand
Corporation being satirized
and sort of made fun of.
But it's a very real entity that
was essentially constructing
the entire Cold War.
That was who was
in the background,
with mutually assured
destruction and rational choice
theory, game theory, all these
different techniques that could
be applied to the mass mind.
And that was really
their function.
And then if you look at other
films like "Barry Lyndon,"
that Kubrick did, you're looking
at sort of the class struggle.
And you've got-- I mean,
pedophilia comes up
all the time in Kubrick films.
You know, he did
"Lolita," right?
So you've got all
these different themes
that I think are
consistently present.
"Eyes Wide Shut,"
obviously, shows
the elite being pretty much
obsessed with sex magic.
"Hoodwinking,"-- again, the
character bill Hartford,
played by Tom Cruise.
And so I think that pattern
throughout Kubrick's film shows
that in his case-- and
you mentioned "2001"--
he's showing us the perspective
of the elite of what you might
call the Illuminati.
>> What about the issue of
UFOs oftentimes coming up?
Historically, they've always
been part of, obviously, film.
But do you think that
they're, in a sense,
trying to condition us for
the ultimate revelations
or ultimate disclosure that
will occur in time, of the fact
that yes, there are alien
beings on this planet,
there are non-human entities
that have been here?
And you know, sort
of using-- again,
like "2001" is one such
case, of a film that
does indicate
extraterrestrial involvement
in the creation of man.
So do we think that these
UFO and secret space program
type of movies are sort of
predictive programming for us?
>> I think that if you
look at the alien mythos,
you can go back to
somebody like HG Wells,
who was so influential on not
just future science-fiction
writers, but even filmmakers.
So anything that you might see
from, say, Spielberg or Kubrick
that deals with
science fiction, you
have to look back to HG Wells.
And HG Wells was actually
predicting in 1901 or 1902,
somewhere in that time
frame, traveling to the moon.
So even back then, he
wrote an explicit story
about astronauts
traveling to the moon
and what they might find there,
and ancient civilizations,
things like this.
If you look at "Island
of Dr. Moreau,"
he's writing about genetic
modification and engineering.
If you look at "The Time
Machine," he's, in a way,
writing about atomics and the
possibility of nuclear fallout
and all this.
So this is 80 to
100 years before--
>> Well, he predicted the
nuclear war, for example.
>> Exactly.
>> During the First World War,
he was talking about nuclear
bombs.
>> Right.
And you've got "The
Shape of Things to Come,"
which describes all
kinds of modern amenities
that we have now.
So I think that when you look at
something like that-- and then
"War of the Worlds"
obviously talks
about the arrival of
aliens and so forth-- I
see it more as a conditioning
to accept a new kind of religion
that will be offered.
So not so much as a
revelation of the existence
of other entities or things
like this-- which I do
think there are spiritual
entities that exist,
but not necessarily
extrabiological.
I think that what's
going to happen
is you're going to
see, through Hollywood
and the presentation of a lot
of these movies-- like something
like "Prometheus," where you've
got the alien Engineers, that
have sort of tweaked man along
the way-- you're going to see
the blending of the
traditional Darwinian mythos
that was so prevalent
in HG Wells' stories
with this kind of
alien mythos to give us
the idea of, essentially,
a new religion
to replace the old traditional
religions of the West.
>> Well, one of the paths that
seems to be leading us towards
this massive transformation,
this New World Order
philosophy, in a sense, does
seem to be a civil war concept.
And obviously, we
can point to the fact
that it seems to be occurring
in Europe, in the formation
of the Arab immigrants
vying with the indigenous--
well, the local
Europeans, who have also
obviously transplanted
over the course of time.
But the point is, there's
civil war brewing in Europe.
And in America, you have a lot
of civil war tension, you know,
whether it's the
Trump-versus-Hillary dialogue
that's going on, and
obviously the Black
Lives Matter versus
the police force.
But there's a lot of
brewing hostilities.
But then you see movies that
have come out the last couple
years, and it's a lot of focus
on "Captain America: Civil
War," "Batman v Superman,"
"The Free State of Jones,"
about the Civil War, "Birth of
a Nation," about the Civil War,
and even "Neighbors 2."
And you know, it's a lot
of symbolism, I would say.
Even shows like "Bloodlines,"
like the symbolism
of brother versus brother.
What do you think is being--
do you think this is part
of predictive programming--
>> Absolutely.
>> --by, again, by the
elite, to potentially put us
in a condition of
conflict with each other?
>> Absolutely.
In fact, you can find-- on
the plane ride over here,
I was actually reading one of
the top military strategists
from the sort of neoconservative
camp, Steven Mann.
He wrote a famous essay
about chaos strategy.
And he says that
you can actually
exploit weaknesses
in other countries
through the implementation
of democracy.
Now, it's not democracy the
way that we think about it,
but it's rather the
idea of hyping up
racial and political
divisions between, say,
existing groups in
Syria, or the Ukraine.
And we know that these different
[? color ?] revolutions,
which have been funded
by Soros and the State
Department, Victoria Nuland,
these different shadow
state, deep state, State
Department entities--
>> National Endowment for
Democracy, in particular.
>> Exactly.
Exactly.
What they do is that they
will go and study a region,
do an ethnography, which is what
the CIA does where they learn
everything about a
culture, its habits,
its techniques, its
modes of speaking.
And they'll tailor
all the propaganda
to exploit any possible
divisions in those regions.
And so then what happens is it
moves into a stage of what's
called hybrid warfare.
And hybrid warfare--
there's a great book
by a guy named Andrew
Korybko, a Russian analyst who
wrote a book on hybrid warfare.
And he says you can
actually predict
where any of the
next hot spots are
going to be based on where any
proposed future infrastructure
or pipelines might be.
And that's where you're going
to see al-Qaeda, or ISIS,
or these different
proxies pop up.
And I think that in
the US domestically,
it's the exact same strategy.
So I've written a
bunch of articles
on how the think tanks
and the NGOs, they
will actually tailor
their approach
to each specific group.
So if it's like a
women's rights group,
or if it's Black Lives
Matter, something like that,
you'll have propaganda that's
tailored towards that group,
to what's called agitprop, to
agitate through this propaganda
to cause the division.
So absolutely.
And you mentioned Hollywood.
And because people don't get
their worldview from the news,
generally, most people
get it from the theater.
So Hollywood's
crucial in that role
of being sort of the pivot
point between the establishment
and the mass mind,
in terms of hyping up
these tensions and
destabilization, basically.
>> Right.
So I mean, just given
your geopolitical analysis
and psychological
warfare study, what
do you think is-- let's
look into our crystal
ball for a moment and just
think, what might be coming
for America in the next
four, four to five years,
let's say, under-- well, whoever
is president doesn't really
matter, I think.
There's already a strategy
that's being implemented.
And so what you see as the
essential-- sort of if you just
look, predict the
future a little bit,
based on what you're seeing
in movies and music and media?
>> Well, the techniques
have the ability--
they're kind of a technology
of-- what they do in the Middle
East is called microstates.
And so when you break
up these regions,
you create just smaller and
smaller niches of people,
and that's much
easier to control.
So I think in the
US, you're going
to see sort of greater
and greater fragmentation
of different
regions, who will be
sort of-- not necessarily
a civil war of North
versus South.
But you'll have--
you know, people
in, say, large
metropolitan areas
are going to view people who are
rural as sort of their enemy.
You'll have the racial tensions.
I think it's just
going to be greater
and greater fragmentation.
And again, the Pentagon,
Steven Mann, they
even write about how this
is a technique, a tactic.
Goes all the way back to
Caesar and the Galician Wars,
where we talked about dividing
them up through propaganda.
Machiavelli talks
about this in his--
he has his own book, "Art of
War," modeled after Sun Tzu.
Book six of Machiavelli's
treatise, he says,
you can use all these
tricks and tactics.
>> Well, it's interesting you
mentioned the pipeline wars
of the Middle East, but I think
we have pipeline wars is coming
to America itself.
I mean, we're
seeing it right now.
Obviously originally, it was
against the Keystone Pipeline.
Now it's becoming much more
intense, with actual violence
against Native
American protesters,
for example, in North Dakota.
So--
>> Pressure-- it's pressure
from above and from below
at the same time, absolutely.
>> Right.
But so do you think that
a lot of this tension
is being orchestrated
because of the issue
that elite want to push, for
pipelines and for continuing
the oil and gas industry?
>> That's one aspect of it.
I mean, I think Big Oil is a
big part of the power structure.
But you have a bunch
of other aspects, too.
So if you go back to the
Royal Society and the way
that they've talked about social
engineering for so long, if you
look at the way Bertrand Russell
talked about the population,
he was just
ultimately so devious
and said, essentially,
in his book,
"Impact of Science on
Society," that you'd
have to stamp out man's spirit.
And so I think that
in the long run,
it's not so much about
just regional conflicts
or pipelines.
It's actually about the
stamping out of man's spirit,
like we see in "1984."
O'Brien know, O'Brien
tells Winston,
it's a boot on your
face for all eternity.
So I mean, I'm not trying
to be scaremongering,
but I'm saying
that's the technique
of the social engineers.
That's their goal, is to have
a bunch of drones, basically,
who are just corporate
cubicle mind-bombed idiots.
>> Yeah.
Well, you mentioned
earlier about
how they're trying to create
a new religion, essentially,
and that UFOs or
extraterrestrials
might play a role.
And you've heard, obviously,
the Catholic church now issuing
proclamations about
how everyone--
we have intergalactic
brothers, basically,
a brotherhood of all beings,
including intergalactic beings.
So aliens could be part
of this new religion.
But also, I think Hollywood
has become a new religion,
in a sense.
>> Yes.
>> It's a ritual feel to it.
You go into a
theater, or you watch
this-- you take this space.
You watch this film.
The lights are dim.
And we've known
that it's oftentimes
been a tool for selling
sex and violence.
It's a crude way of
saying it, but there
does seem to be this sort of
sex magic and blood ritual that
takes place on screen.
Is that how people potentially
should view what's actually
being-- that there
is an actual ritual
being enacted when
they're watching a movie?
>> I think so.
And in fact, you
can find quotes,
and I've put them in my
book, where Orson Welles said
that he viewed his creation
of film like a magic ritual.
And he loved to-- if you've
ever seen "F for Fake,"
he's even kind of
showing what he's
up to with-- the film presents
these fictional scenarios,
and he says, three
of these are lies.
One of them is true.
You've got to figure
out which one's which.
Essentially, the
point of the film
is to show you that
Hollywood is kind of a trick.
It's a magic trick.
It's an excellent sort
of pre-documentary-style
mockumentary that pioneered
the way for that genre.
But I think that Wells
is good for showing that.
I think that you can
look at other directors,
like David Lynch.
And he speaks of his films as,
more or less, ritual workings.
He says that he
views himself as kind
of the shaman in
between two worlds.
And so "Twin Peaks," the
famous "Fire Walk With Me" line
is actually about the shamanic
journey between two worlds
to be inspired for
your artistic vision.
So absolutely.
I think that--
>> And I think it's ironic,
because "Twin Peaks," to me,
is all about trauma-based
mind control.
>> Absolutely.
>> And I think of the
Twin Towers as a form
of trauma-based mind control.
And then, of course,
the funny thing
is you have Twin Pines Mall
in "Back to the Future"
that becomes "One Pine Mall"
after he goes back in time.
>> Yeah, you did a great
breakdown of that, yeah.
>> Right?
So there's interesting symbols
that are fed into these movies.
And you're thinking,
well, is it all part
of this predictive program?
And ultimately, maybe
there is-- maybe
there is an esoteric
influence that
is guiding the entire process
of what filmmakers are going
through, in order to
tell us-- basically,
to prepare us for
what is coming.
>> Right.
>> And so, you know, again,
going back to the space
question, Kubrick,
you've studied,
and many people have alleged
he was involved in filming
the moon landings.
And one allegation
is not because we
didn't go to the moon, but
because our space program is
actually a secret space program
that it has billions, if not
trillions of dollars invested
into it, that's so far beyond,
it's closer to "Star Trek"
than those little shuttles
and "Explorers" that
are shown to the public.
>> B-movie stuff.
>> What do you make of that?
>> I think that it's very
possible that Kubrick was
filming something that was
kind of a front or a facade
to distract.
Meanwhile, there's
a covert operation,
a covert program, that is far
more vast, far more expansive,
has a lot more money than these
sort of dinky little ships
and models that look
like B-movies, right?
So that's definitely
what's going on in it.
But if you look at "2001," we
mentioned earlier-- in my book
what I did was I analyzed
it from the perspective
of philosophy and metaphysics.
And I argued that when he's
saying "A Space Odyssey,"
It's not just outer
space, but it's actually
kind of space itself, like
six-dimensional space--
up, down, left, right,
forward, backward.
And that is actually
a cue, right?
So all of the six dimensions
possible within space.
And so I think that
the monolith represents
man's evolutionary ascent
beyond the limitations
of spatial dimensions and time.
And so I think that
Kubrick sees it as that,
and that the elite then have
this claim this divine right,
to space, all space.
And that's where you get
the breakaway civilization.
And "2001" actually is a
breakaway civilization story.
Because Star Child
basically nukes the world
after you have the ascent of--
this apotheosis of Star Child,
who comes out of Bowman, right?
In the film presentation,
at least, right?
And so I believe that
the monolith kind of
represents AI and man's
transhumanist sort of ascent.
And then through AI, at least,
Kubrick's potential thesis
is that man can transcend
his limitations that way.
>> Right.
>> That's how I view it.
But--
>> Well, certainly, we're on the
cusp of artificial intelligence
in so many capacities that it's
clear it's going to be a major
factor.
And it's already a major factor
in many films and TV shows.
But what are some
techniques that people
can use when viewing media or
listening to music to start
to recognize, well,
there's something--
there's either something
symbolic that's
being shown to me,
or there's something,
some kind of programming,
that's being offered.
So how can they
learn to recognize
and start be just
more discerning when
they view media?
>> I think that it
almost can't be done,
unless there's kind of a basic
philosophical perspective that
you have.
And that's kind of
what I try to do,
is give people Philosophy 101.
And so that would include
things like understanding
how we know what we know.
It would include basic logical
fallacies and understanding
how logic works.
Which might sound
a little obtuse,
but it's actually
not that difficult,
when you can actually just
print out the main fallacies.
Now that may sound unconnected
to film but it's not.
Because even though you're
being presented a story
line, if you're watching
something like "Zero Dark
Thirty," or if you're
watching something
like "American Sniper," if you
understand what you're being
presented with, that this is
coming from the establishment,
then you can already
kind of recognize
that it's going to be telling
you a message for a reason.
They want you to accept
something for a reason.
And if you just have
a basic knowledge
of non-contradiction-- which
is one of the basic fallacies--
then you're going to know
that what they're presenting
you is not true.
I mean, obviously there
has to be some research,
too, I think, in terms
of how we understand
the history of Hollywood,
the history of mass media,
and what these
entities exist for.
They don't exist for what
most people think they're for.
So basic education.
>> I've always felt that
when something comes out,
whether it's a film or
music, that strikes me as not
necessarily being from a
place of truth or purity,
or that might not have
the best intention--
like an "American Sniper" or
like some of this very crude
music--
>> Right.
>> And if I don't watch it
at the time it comes out,
I'm not participating.
I'm not putting my energy
towards the ritual, in a sense.
>> Right.
>> That at least that's the
only thing I can actually do
to maintain some sense
of sovereignty of self,
and basically not
to feed the beast.
>> That's a great point.
Right.
>> Would you say that that's
something people can do,
essentially, is to not
necessarily engage with it
right away, as part
of that mass hysteria?
>> Yeah.
I mean, one of the things that
a ritual working is intended
to do is to sap energy.
And so once-- these
sort of media spectacles
or big blockbusters,
what they do,
as viewed from the
ritual perspective,
is that they focus
everyone's intention, right?
So rather than you being
independent and able to have
your own will
towards life, you're
taking two hours,
whatever it is,
and being sucked into somebody
else's presentation, which
is intended to steer you
in a certain direction
and program you,
in a sense, right?
So I'm not saying you
can't watch any films.
But I'm saying that I think
you'd have to wisely choose
how you use your time.
>> Yes.
>> Because it's intended to
sap your energy and your focus,
which you should
direct your own way.
>> Absolutely.
Well, thanks so much for
coming on today, Jay.
I really appreciate your time.
>> Absolutely.
>> And there you have it, folks.
Some great insights
from Jay Dyer.
Hopefully we can help you,
through this conversation,
understand how important your
own energy and sovereignty
really is to you and to
the world around you.
Let's not feed into a
beast and a machine that
propagates war and violence
and subjugation of others.
I urge you to read Jay's books
for much more detail, specially
"Esoteric Hollywood," as well
as his blog, Jay's Analysis,
online.
And remember this--
the road to truth
is a perilous path along
the edge of the buzzsaw.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
You are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]